### Read the following passage, then choose the best answer. Circle A, B, C or D to indicate your answers.

Whether it's awe, fear, or simply fascination, people love things that are big. So it's no surprise that Deep Blue, a 20-foot-long great white shark and the largest ever captured on camera, makes headlines anytime she's spotted. But beyond the sensationalism associated with such stories, experts say superlative giants have plenty of science to teach us too.

"Is there value in just telling a story about a big shark? No," says Chris Fischer, founding chairperson of Ocearch, a data-collection organization that has tracked some of the largest great white sharks on Earth. Fischer says that if such an animal is safely captured, sampled, tagged, and released, then it can be useful to science. Tracking a large female like Deep Blue, for instance, can reveal "where great white sharks mate, where they **gestate**, and where they give birth," says Fischer. And for a species vulnerable to extinction, such as the great white, this is crucial data for figuring out how to best protect the fish and boost its numbers.

At the same time, today's measurements can be used to show how living species have changed in response to hunting, fishing, and other human impacts. "If you look at historical records for some of these animals, like manta rays and whale sharks, you'll see that they used to be significantly larger than the ones we see presently in our oceans," says Andrea Marshall, a National Geographic Society explorer. And according to her, this means that "we've fished out all of the largest, oldest, and most mature of them." And that, in turns, means conservationists have some serious work to do to restore species back to their original state. All of this is very important because being big is not always a boon for these animals. Take the alligator gar, a freshwater fish that can grow longer than eight feet and weigh more than 300 pounds. "Once they reach a certain size, there are very few predators that can eat them," says Solomon David, an aquatic ecologist at Nicholls State University in Louisiana. But even a full-grown alligator gar is no match for a human. David says far too many of the impressive fish are now being killed for entertainment or as trophies, and this has negative consequences for this rare and threatened species.
